I just got back from Peru where I saw one of the
craziest things I've ever seen in my life. What
am I referring to? I just might have seen a dead
alien or an alien human hybrid or an entirely new
branch of homminid or an ancient human mutilated
in a bizarre way to imitate what looks like a gray
alien. I'm of course talking about these ancient
Peruvian tridactyl three-fingered and three-toed
mummies. Alien mummies. Alien corpses. Mummified
alien bodies. Is this real? Mummified aliens of
NASCAR, Peru. The is that? Oh my god. I can't
wait for you to see these things because they're
absolutely insane. And the facts around them and
the region they were found in are just as trippy.
But you're probably already thinking, Jesse,
these were already proven to be a complete hoax.
Why are you platforming this ridiculous topic?
To you, I urge you to earnestly contend with
these mind-bending facts. Top forensic experts
in Peru, Mexico, and the United States have
all investigated these bodies. After thorough
investigation, they all think that these beings
were probably once alive. They even looked for
deliberate mutilation of the fingers and toes,
which they found no evidence of. There's data to
show that some of these bodies can be interpreted
to be perhaps living organisms. It's not that
they cut off one finger or the other finger. The
bodies are real. You don't think they were
constructed at all? No, it's would be very
difficult. You need to be the best surgeon in
the world to do that in replicate. Catastrophic
disclosure is happening in Latin America.
Thanks to our amazing friend Michael Mazola,
who's coming out with an epic documentary on the
mummies later this summer. That documentary is
going to be called This Is Not a Hoax. And please
pre-order his book, Catastrophic Disclosure,
which I am linking in the description. We got
a front row seat to this entire thing. We were
able to go to Peru and see three of the most
interesting tridactyl beings, Monzerat, Sebastian,
and Santiago. One of my best friends and fellow
UFO freak, Amomar Candal from the massive and very
inspirational YouTube channel, Yes Theory, decided
to join me on this trip. There's a mutation in one
of those genes that could cause changes in
digit development. It has a fetus inside the
body. Oh my god. And the hand and the feets of
these features are also tractor. Never in the 8
years I've been researching have I mentioned
or said the word extraterrestrial. Never we
are talking about humanoid species. Just from an
anthropology perspective that should be the most
fascinating thing. Graphic evidence of tridacti
exists all over planet earth. Everything came
from a single place. This name comes from the word
in the Nazca language laboratory where cloning and
hybridization were done. These bodies connect the
connectment technology. But if I want to use the
technology for reverse engineering, then I prefer
to hide the bodies and use it for war. Right?
We have caught the Peruvian government and
Ministry of Culture in multiple instances of bad
faith acting around this case. For some reason,
they don't want this case to see the light of day.
I put a lawsuit against them for $300 million. I
repeat, that one is fake. I'm doing something real
and important and I I'm not a liar. [Music] And if
you watch this entire episode and wait until the
end, you'll see how we're using state-of-the-art
ancient DNA analysis techniques to definitively
tell you the beings that we're looking at. Maybe
we can solve this mystery once and for all.
[Music]
Before [Music] the Incans, ancient Peru was
home to other more mysterious cultures. The
Paracas until 100 BC and the Nazca people from
100 to 800 CE. The Nazca region in southern
Peru is named after these Nazca people
because it's where they primarily lived.
It's currently over a thousand square miles
and contains only around 80,000 people. Nazca
culture historically has been known for
a few different things. Unique religious
practices often involving ritual offerings,
trophy heads, and shamanic rights. Polychrome
pottery with highly stylized mythological
motifs and of course mythological cave art.
One of the most prominent archaeological sites
uh is a petroglyph of uh what can be
interpreted as a tridactyl. Three-fingered
and toad beings are everywhere. Just look at
this Nazca cave art and these woven fabrics.
Then of course you have these massive geoglyphs
known as the Nazca lines. Large scale drawings
spanning up to 30 m long etched directly
into the desert floor. When you go to Nazca,
when you see these drawings from the ground, they
are not so hard to be made. The only thing that
will be controversial is for whom they made
these drawings. Why? Okay. Because the only
thing for sure is that these drawings were made
to be seen from the sky. They only make sense
150 to 500 m in the air, which is far higher than
any of the closest vantage points on the ground.
So unless you have some aerial flying object,
the line configurations and the figures they
depict are literally incomprehensible to you.
Anybody who says that this can be appreciated
in its full form the way we're standing right
now, they're out to lunch. To see the finished
product is only from up there. Eric von
Danigan, author of Chariots of the Gods,
thought that they were tributes to ancient alien
astronauts, an extraterrestrial group that seated
human civilization. I have no idea if Danakin is
right, and I don't really have any hard evidence
to believe he is. But you have to admit, one of
these Nazca lines looks kind of like an astronaut.
and another in Chile depicts a being
with three fingers. Nonetheless,
the question remains, why would humans
build megalithic structures up to 30 m
long that only make sense a few hundred meters
in the air, higher than the highest local peak?
Why are there no excavation roads leading up
to the main carvings, which presumably would
have been necessary given all of the displaced
earth, even if they were using modern civil
engineering techniques? And then finally, why
are there frequent UFO sightings in this area?
The final thing that the Nazca and Paracus people
practiced were cranial deformationation or skull
elongation rituals. Cranial deformation is
a deliberate reshaping of the skull using
wooden boards, cloth bindings, or head frames
often done to infants resulting in permanently
elongated conicle or flattened skulls. These
rituals conferred status onto the recipients
of the elongation. It often represented an
initiation into a priestly class. It denoted
nobility and in many cases it also seemed
to be an attempt to imitate the gods. Well,
and also across cultures how they have cranial
deformationation techniques to mimic the quote
unquote gods that are present. Yeah. I mean, who
was the first like king to call for monotheism in
Egypt, he had he had a weird guy. Yeah. Yeah.
And where does the skull elongation come from?
We don't really know. We don't know why it
arrived right then. So, it's like this little
period of time where the where the skull
elongation shows up. Why does it show up?
Okay, so that's the backdrop in which in 2015
a gravedigger named Leandro happened upon a
cave with these tridactyl, three-fingered,
three-toed, very gray alien looking mummies.
I was walking along the edge and tripped on the on
the wall and then it fell apart and
I could see this cave full of datoms.
I started to dig to dig and dig and
big clumps began to emerge that when
they melted revealed that they were
heads and parts of of the bodies.
The cave contained over 200 body parts, isolated
heads, limbs, and appendages, and in many cases,
entire intact bodies. All of the bodies and parts
were covered in dietmacious earth, a desicant
that dried them out and preserved them. And
technically, they aren't actually mummies. Many of
them still have their organs fully intact inside
the bodies. The bodies have a range of carbon
dating from 700 years ago to 18,800 years ago,
mostly overlapping with the Nazca period. There
are three different dominant body types in the
pile of 200 bodies and parts. Number one, the S
types. These small winged creatures that we're not
going to focus too much on in this episode. Number
two, the J types, or as they're sometimes called,
reptilians. These are skinny, two to three feet
tall, oddly geometric or boxy bodies, and their
faces look like the aliens in Close Encounters
of the Third Kind. Some even have eggs inside
their bellies. We have 25 to 30 of these. The
mummies I personally think are most interesting
are called the Mtypes or homminids. These look
like hominid 4 to 5ft beings. Their organs,
tendons, cartilage, and bones fully intact.
H how many how many bodies? Oh my god.
Before we move on, a word from our sponsors.
This was the hardest documentary we've ever had
to make. On the way from Lima, Peru to Mexico
City, I got sick as a dog. Hold on. Let me let
me blow my nose real quick. It's getting bad. I
wish I was in better shape. I always travel with
Element Electrolytes. They are my favorite
hydration brand. Just the basics. Sodium,
magnesium, potassium that you can mix into water
or any drink. No sugar, nothing extra. On flights,
in hotels, and right before interviews, when I
thought I'd need to rest and call it in for the
day because I was exhausted and packing up fleg.
Sorry for the visuals. I'd hit a packet of Element
and it would give me some clean, no jitters, pure
energy. I still use the product daily. In fact,
during this 3-hour monologue that we're editing
into this documentary, I mix this little packet
into this Mountain Valley water and I drink
it and it keeps me going. It works if you're
fasting and need electrolytes before and after
workouts and while researching for long hours.
It's also just great if you want to avoid that
slow dehydrated crash. Half the time I'm tired,
it's because I'm not drinking enough water
and I don't have enough electrolytes. I'm
also not a daily coffee drinker, so it's
kind of become my go-to healthy solution
for energy and vitality. So, get your free
element sample pack with any purchase. Again,
that's a free sample pack with any
purchase at drinkelement.com/alchemy.
That's drinklnt.com/alchemy.
Also, try the new element sparkling. It's a bold
16oz can of sparkling electrolyte water. It tastes
like your favorite soda, but it's dramatically
healthier for you and it hydrates you. Our second
amazing sponsor for this video also literally
saved my ass after Peru. That's of course Ways
to Well, founded by my good friend Bighgam Buer.
I just couldn't kick whatever I got in South
America. Bighgam and his team threw the kitchen
sink at it. They gave me intravenous stem cells,
nebulized stem cells that I literally inhaled to
repair my lungs, vitamin IVs, hyperbaric chamber,
and red light therapy, all for free. I am
convinced I wouldn't have been able to go on
the Joe Rogan Experience if it weren't for Bighgam
and his team resuscitating me. And I can literally
say I wouldn't have been on JRE because Bighgam
made that introduction. If that's not enough,
Ways to Well gave my father, who suffers from
dementia, free stem cells and helped my mom with
her vertigo. Okay, so how does any of this apply
to you? Ways to Well does extensive blood work
measuring 75 plus biomarkers, giving you access to
custom formulated supplements, even more peptides
and prescriptions based on that blood work. They
even have an AI app that's literally an alien
called Allen, which is a custom large language
model healthcare assistant diving deep into your
biomarkers. So, this couldn't be a better fit for
American Alchemy fans. Use code Jesse to get 10%
off your blood work today. This is one of the most
important things you could do for your health. If
you're interested in supplements, they sell some
of the best ones. They are custom formulated,
pure and clean with no junk fillers, no GMOs.
They're third-party tested for potency and purity.
Just go to waystowwwell.com and use code jesse
at checkout for a big discount. I can't thank
Ways to Well enough. I truly think they're going
to revolutionize healthcare. Please check them out
and give their blood work and supplements
a try. Now, back to these crazy mummies.
A dude, this is a good [__] way.
One, two, three fingers. One, two,
three. It's not that they cut off
one finger or the other finger. No, there
are three. That's a CT scan. Yeah. Yeah.
There's no way. You can't fake that.
I mean, I don't need to be a forensics
expert to say that that's if that's a real
image. There's no way that that's fake.
[Music]
dude. Look at the fingers. Look at the fingers
here. That's like the realest. Oh my god.
[Music]
At this point, you are probably convinced that
these aren't art pieces glued together like Flavio
Estrada and the Peruvian Ministry of Culture
claim. They seem a whole lot like organisms that
are anatomically self-consistent. Just look at the
image reconstructions from the CAT scans. [Music]
You have great independent researchers
like Gonzalo Chavez who helped set up
tridactyls.org pointing out that
the diccom files made public. If
you look at these cat scans around
even the J-types, the reptilians,
you can see capillaries nourishing the eggs
inside one of their bodies. I don't even know
if the most advanced synthetic biology going on
in the United States can fake some of this stuff,
let alone a werro named Leandro who lives behind
a chicken coupe in Peru. We will link all of the
medical imaging done on all of these beings
on tridactyls.org which contains all of the
diccom files with cat scans and other data so
you can look at all of this stuff yourself.
We feel that some of the entities are
worthy of further investigation. John McDow,
who is president of the American Forensics
Association for a year and just won the
highest award in the country for
forensics, the Grand Wall Award,
says this. There is uh evidence, there's
data to show that some of these uh bodies,
these entities uh can be interpreted
to to be perhaps living organisms.
McDow saw the bodies in person. He was joined by
Jim Caruso, the chief medical examiner for Denver
and a forensic pathologist. A former medical
officer in the Navy for decades, Caruso has
dozens of peer-reviewed scientific papers and
has personally performed over 300 autopsies.
Another person who isn't a stranger to autopsies
is Dr. David Ruiz. He's the president of the
Peruvian Society of Legal Medicine. So he's
kind of the equivalent of McDow in Peru. I
have been president of the Peruvian Society of
Legal Medicine, right? It's equivalent to Macd
as a doctor as you call it a conventional doctor
we see scans and MRIs and images all the time.
I mean we realize when there is something
something real or something something
unreal. He takes things even farther than
McDow confidently claiming that these are
nonhuman but very real beings and that
the predactives have been visiting us
for thousands of years. We invite the
scientists of the world, the professors,
the professionals from different universities
to be a little more interested in knowing this.
Never in the 8 years I've been researching have
I mentioned or said the word extraterrestrial.
Never. We are talking about humanoid species. We
are talking about perhaps a hommininit like us a
threefingered homminit. The word extraterrestrials
has been used by the scientists who do not want
to investigate. the archaeologist who resist
accepting this and try to discredit it. They
call them fake extraterrestrial mummies. And
then you have chief of the medical division
for the Mexican Navy, Joseé Zce. He joins
Ruiz, but he goes even farther than him,
saying not only are the bodies definitely real
organisms. He speculates that the beings are so
genetically dissimilar to humans, that they might
be extraterrestrial. In the big bodies like Maria,
the DNA show us that there were around 70% known
DNA, but there were 30 30% completely different.
You're probably already thinking, Jesse, these
were already proven to be a complete hoax. Why
are you platforming this ridiculous topic?
While the only reason you think that these
are a hoax is because a journalist, remember the
guy who was talking about UFO sightings around
the Nazca lines, a guy named Manuel Caceras made
wooden figurines that he glued together dedicated
to the Nazca mummies to sell to tourists.
These little trinkets, pieces of touristic
art meant to resemble the real mumies. These
were confiscated at the Lima airport in 2023.
I repeat, that one is fake. It's craftsmanship
constructed, built. In early 2024, Reuters
published this about the Nazca mummies. They're
not extraterrestrials. They're dolls made from
animal bones from this planet joined together with
modern synthetic glue, said Flavio Estrada. But
that ridiculous conflation between these wooden
figurines and these real anatomically consistent
whole bodies was reported on by Reuters and other
esteemed legacy publications. And it's the sole
reason so many people in the Western world are so
sure this story is fake. It's at that point that
the story became a laughingstock. Here we are.
Oh, I love this. I love these two of them. What
is that? I don't know, Jesse. Man, bro, shit's
getting real, bro. The real story is that this
gravedigger, Leandro, found the bodies in 2015.
So, this must have been completely full of bodies.
Leandro does shamanic tours in the local region.
He lives behind a chicken coupe and is linked with
some interesting local organizations. In 2016,
he met a French explorer of ancient Incan lost
cities named Theory Yamin. Yamin is an explorer
from another era, a real life Indiana Jones. In
this case, trying to find El Dorado. Yamin and
his Enari Institute have been spearheading a lot
of research around these three-fingered beings,
or as they're known, triactyls, since that time.
Crazy. Crazy. Wow. So, right now
they're showing us the moment,
the exact moment they discovered that uh
she was pregnant when they were doing the
scans because it happens live. So, that's
what they're showing us right now. Perhaps
one of the wildest revelations. Monzerat, one
of these tridactyl Mtype homminidike beings,
might also have a fetus inside of it. That
is a threefingered tridactyl being. This
would imply a genetic match and phenotypic
inheritance between a baby and a mother.
Wow.
So if you had the tomography, the x-rays, the 3D
reconstruct, you had all of that, say take out
the 3D reconstructions, you just had the the raw
measurement data that you got. Yes. If you sent
that to a normal doctor, you know, who is used to
evaluating the health of a fetus in a in a womb of
any mother, would they say, "Oh, that baby only
has three fingers." Yes. Wow. Yes. If if that if
that they would be able to spot it. A conventional
doctor has has the curiosity to be very careful,
he will say this baby has three fingers in the
hands and in the their feet. So it would be easy
for a conventional doctor to spot. Yes. Wow.
She when when she passed away was pregnant.
She had a prominent belly and of course the
amnutic fluid is water and that that is lost more.
That's why it looks like her hands are in the air
but she was holding her belly. Oh, it was that's
what I was looking at. I see. I see. And then it
just like Oh, it's so sad. [Music] Now, another
simple explanation would be that these beings went
through typical ancient skull elongation rituals
along with maybe some more unique hand and feet
mutilation procedures. But the cat scans don't
really look like the hands were mutilated. And
the skulls don't seem to have the stress fractures
typical of headbinding rituals. If if you had a
closer look, you can see in the school the the
line who who makes the pressure to deforming the
the school. Okay? You can see it in the school.
Ah, you can see it. You can you can see where
where the humans put something to deform ah the
school. Okay. In the school of Maria, if you saw
the tomographies, you you can't you can't see any
any line of artificial deformation. And are are
we noticing that the the the the skull is also
big? See? Okay. So, it's so they are born big
then. It's not like a a manipulation over the
skull. Now, if that's not weird enough, there's a
genetic mutation that dictates digit differences,
anomalous numbers of fingers and toes. This
genetic mutation does that in humans. This
mutation was apparently found in the NCBI database
holding the genetic data on these Peruvian Nazca
mummies. Just listen to biioinformatics expert
Elena Hardy on what she found. One of the things
I did find uh and I kind of stumbled across was I
actually went to falsify the hypothesis that there
was a genetic mutation that could cause changes
in digit development. Right? So I went into
the literature. I found a list of like 50 genes
involved in the pathway. Sonic Hedgehog is the one
that everybody has heard of. Right? This is one of
the Sonic Hedgehog pathways. There's a mutation in
one of those genes called GLI3 where a similar
kind of mutation is associated in the literature
with polyendactyli. So like the fusion of fingers
or extra or extra digits. Um and so that's really
interesting. It doesn't have anything to do with
tried but it's like not a super common mutation.
You know it's like you wouldn't it's it's it was
enough to make me go huh. And wasn't there a study
of like a Chinese family that has this group as
well? Yeah, some of the members of that family
who have that mutation have everything from like
developmental disabilities to these digits like
disorders of digit development. And this was like
a mutation that comes from like one side like
either the mother mother or the father. Um and so
you can have this effect with just one side of the
family passing on this gene. You don't need two
copies of it, right? There there are other like
mutation, right? Isn't there like there's some
tribe in Africa with like ostrich feet? There
are these mutations that are maybe even rendered
adaptive in certain environments and they sort
of persist over time. And so it could just be
that which would be remarkable unto itself. I
don't think this obscure genetic mutation is even
widely known in the genetics community and it's
definitely not known by the Wiiro gravediggers
who dug up the bodies in the first place. So,
if you could replicate the finding of that
mutation, that would be a big deal. At this point,
I don't think the question is, are these beings
real or fake? They are clearly real beings.
Seeing the mummies in person was wild, but I
had been hearing so much about this guy behind
this story. Haime MSAN, the supposed charlatan
hoaxer. Jesse, don't go to Peru. You're going
to ruin your brand. Haime is a known hoaxer. I
can't tell you how many texts I've gotten like
that. I needed to meet the man myself and see
what he was all about. I honestly loved Haime.
Haime is independently very wealthy. He lives in
one of the most beautiful houses on the border of
a national park right outside Mexico City and
is on a quest to prove that extraterrestrial
life is real. When we finish, I'll show you
the spear. I can't wait. So excited. Yeah,
my friend. You feel it? You feel it? You feel this
is not [__] real. This is something else. This
is so crazy. A few days before visiting Himemeay,
he happened to have recovered an aluminum object
of which he had over 4 minutes of video flying
around Bugo, Colombia. The object appears to
drop below the trees and get retrieved on the
forest floor. But he said it weighs 2 kilos,
4 lb, and then now weighs 10 kilos. Haime is a
bit more sure of this boggosphere than I am. The
sphere is fascinating. It seems to be made of
an aluminum alloy, three times the hardness of
aerospace grade aluminum. They claim it exhibits
electromagnetic anomalies. I think there are some
decent debunks here and my brain was already fully
broken by the mummies. So, write a comment if you
have any hot takes on the bugosphere and we'll
do a follow-up episode on it. But the point is,
while I don't agree with Haime on everything,
I love his energy and I think he is actually
inviting real scientific scrutiny on these things.
He can speak in absolutes and isn't always nuanced
as I might shake out on certain UFO cases. The
bodies are real. The bodies are real. The bodies
are real. Uh, the bodies are real. Yeah, he
doesn't like to engage in lofty theoretical
conversations about this stuff. I'm more
interested in weird science and abstract theory,
but I didn't sense any cynicism or intellectual
disingenuousness from him. If anything, I found
him to be a boldly stated amateur explorer of a
bygone era, just trying to show the public what
he's seen. He genuinely believes that the Nazca
beings are extraterrestrial. And I found him to
be extremely generous, not territorial, and
very open with all of his findings. He took
the tomography scans of this ball and then gave us
the password to look at the results the same day.
So generous of Hime to just give us the login
and password. I find out. Help me. we will. He
clearly just wants the truth out and he doesn't
care if it's out on his platform or others. I
think the time has come to to accept that we have
been visited for a long long time. Why do people
say you're a hoaxer? Because I have the balls to
present things. You know, it's so easy to be in
the back and criticize everything. If you have the
courage to present things, then you are going to
risk yourself. You are going to expose yourself.
Anybody credible in the scientific community,
would you guys like to invite them to Mexico City?
And I mean, if you want this to be recognized by
humanity, yeah, anybody should come. And I think
the best experts are welcome. I don't want to
welcome anyone who comes here just with idea to
destroy the thing to construct to find you know it
doesn't have to tell us what we want to hear they
want to find out the truth if they are looking
for the truth you are welcome anyone [Music] now I
know what you're thinking maybe these people just
want their 15 seconds of fame but if you really
think about these people's credentials they have
more to lose than to gain. They're all fairly well
off financially and they're very credentialed.
Haime is now suing the Peruvian government for
$300 million for defamation because of their
claim that he's pushing a hoax. And we'll have
to remember I I put a lawsuit against them for
$300 million. Wow. Have you invested any personal
money to keep I cannot tell you. Okay. Cannot tell
you. But uh but yeah, the Peruvian government was
completely against this case, especially up until
September 2024 when they've started to tacitly
endorse research at the University of Eeka that
might actually indicate that these bodies are
real. The point is until then, Ruiz could have
faced serious backlash for his involvement
with the case. Just look at what the Peruvian
Ministry of Culture did to Joyce Mantia during
one of the press conferences around the bodies.
While we were down there, they raided the press
conference. I don't know if you heard or saw
about that, but they brought in federal police,
federal prosecutors, and the Ministry of Culture
actually took over the microphone while he was
up on the deis getting ready to speak. I asked
my buddy Pavle from the great podcast Activo
what his take was. Pavle, thank you so much for
being here. You've been covering this for years,
uh, well before it's even started to be kind of
more dstigmatized. He's thoroughly documented the
Peruvian Ministry of Cultures slow shift on the
Nazca mummy's case. The concessions they're now
starting to make, they seem to be walking back
their early hardline denials. when Haime started
doing the whole lawsuit stuff and that forced the
Peruvian Ministry of Culture and the the Peruvian
government to take this a little more seriously.
And just listen to what happened to Zay when
he was working for the Mexican Navy when he
got involved with the mummies. I spent uh around
five days in jail because they they said I I was
a liar and I was putting in risk the honorability
of of the whole system of the Navy. He saved me,
please do not continue the investigation of the
mummies. And I say I can stop doing that because I
believe I'm doing something real and important and
I I'm not a liar. So I have to demonstrate to the
world that it was real. But what about the cave
or tunnel where these bodies were found? Michael
Maza admits that Leandro may have taken him to
the wrong location. So, we found maybe a human
hands here. Like, I don't believe it. No, it was a
different cave. You think it was a different cave?
Straight up. And there are plenty of financial
incentives to keep this cave's location under
wraps. My theory is he's been showing people this
cave to make money. He charges about three grand
of his tour. For a tour to go see this cave.
We did not participate. Yeah. Good. The cave
that he's brought people to did not hold these
bodies. There's no way. The cave's too small.
A few different anonymous sources revealed to me
that the actual source of these bodies is a large
subterranean tunnel system. These sources,
some of whom don't even know each other,
didn't want to reveal their identities publicly
due to fear of retribution from the local cartels.
And to be honest, I found them very believable.
I also think that made a lot of sense from a
self-preservation standpoint. So, while I don't
always love anonymous sources making bold claims,
I have to respect that. There are also a lot of
people in and around these tunnel systems that
say they see and hear weird things at night.
Strange noises coming out of the tunnels,
beings that don't seem to walk like humans,
and other anomalous observations. So,
we might just have a live situation on our hands.
And what about so-called Lazarus species? Species
that the academic consensus thought were
extinct and then get rediscovered. Some of
them are millions of years old. One example
people speculate about is the Orang Pend in
Indonesia. There's a thing called the Orang
Pend. Have you ever heard of that? No. What
is that? They think I believe it's Indonesia
and maybe Vietnam uh where people talk about
these little tiny hairy people that live in
the jungle. Whoa. And so these Flores things,
there's there's a few biologists that
believe these things are still alive.
Interesting. They think even on the island of
Flores, they might still be alive. And again,
the Nazca region is over a thousand square miles
and currently contains only 80,000 or so people.
It's the perfect place for a groundbreaking
discovery like this to have occurred. This also
isn't the only subterranean tunnel system in the
world. There are subterranean tunnel systems all
over the world. Some are ancient like these ones
in modern Turkey documented by the great Graham
Hancock. This is quite a famous phenomenon in in
Turkey that there are huge cities. They look like
ant farms on an enormous scale that are dug out
under the earth. hundreds and hundreds of rooms
that huge efforts was put into digging deep
beneath the earth and creating these shelters.
We have this concept of this coming from another
planet, but it might not be from another planet.
Yeah, it might be from here like the underground
those tunnels and caverns in Turkey where they
have this immense underground civilization or
city rather and it almost felt like maybe they
were hiding out from a cataclysm or something.
And that's what they think it was. Yeah. So
imagine if there's some breakoff civilization
where they lived I mean we're talking hundreds
of thousands of years ago but they're different
than us and you know sometimes they come visit.
But there are weirder ones surrounded by
rumors of weird inhabitants or artifacts.
Take the Teaos cave system at the edge of the
Ecuadorian Amazon. There's a legend attached
to these caves which involves a metal library
made of gold. It supposedly contains an ancient
alien metallic library. The existence of
this library gained so much traction in
elite circles that Neil Armstrong, that's right,
the Neil Armstrong who was the first man to walk
on the moon was so interested in it that he
took a BBC film crew looking for it in 1976.
Why would Neil Armstrong look for aliens on Earth
after going to the moon? That's a question for
another American Alchemy episode, but it shows
at the very least that he had confidence that
he might find something interesting there. There
are also deep underground military bases across
the United States and sometimes ones rumored
to house other beings at S4 Area 51 or Dolce,
New Mexico. These represent the more out there
myths in ufology from Phil Schneider, Bob Lazar,
and Dan Berish involving an American space program
that is co-run with the alien beings themselves.
We went to another part of the of the facility,
went to another building. In that building,
we went into an elevator. We took an elevator
down, which that was the first odd thing is that
it felt like we went down significantly further
than like you would think you would. I I mean,
it was just awkward. It just stood out. But
even if you don't believe any of those stories,
there's a ton of real documentation of deep
underground military bases across the United
States from hardcore researchers like the great
Richard Solder. But listen to what the had to
say about the general region that the mummies
were likely found in. And there is a little book
published in 2004 by a local author from Nazca
that talked about various sites in the Nazca
area. And it precisely talks about this area and
mentions the name of the site where the discovery
was made. And uh it says that this name comes
from from the word such uh in the Nazca language.
And in conclusion uh it means laboratory
where cloning and hybridization were done.
[Music] Now how did they appear? There is no
precedent. There isn't. There are no three
toad hominins. However, upon finding that their
DNA may have been mixed with genetic technology.
If you go back 1,800 years, it's crazy. It is
likely that a civilization more advanced than
ours made that genetic mix. And it is likely
its creators are probably from elsewhere.
So, were these beings laboratory experiments
evidence of a hidden hand
guiding Darwinian evolution?
And here's where things get weirder. Many of these
Mtype or homminid beings contain implants. And
it's uh pulling up the neck. It's squeezing. This
is the X-ray. This is the neck x-ray. But here is
a cervical traumatic injury. But the injury has
been before they put the So then it's not because
of the plate. So the plate could have been to like
repair or correct. These metal implants contain
osmium and cadmium which are extremely rare
earth metals. Osmium is so rare that it's 1,500
times rarer than gold and 2500 times rarer than
silver. Only about 100 kg to one ton of osmium is
extracted globally every year. For reference, 100
kg is roughly the weight of a newborn elephant.
And a small car like a Honda Civic weighs around
a ton. It's an extremely rare element. But perhaps
the weirdest thing about osmium and cadmium is
that they were only officially discovered by the
Western world in the 19th century, but they're
being found on implants in bodies that carbonate
to over a thousand years ago. The rare metal
implants have organic tissues fused to them in
the bodies, indicating that the beings were alive
when the implants were placed. This process of
organic tissue fusing is called oio integration.
I decided to have a little fun and ask chat GPT
how hypothetically osmium would be used as medical
implants. It did say that osmium if oxidized could
be toxic, but underground oxygen is much lower.
So something like osmium would oxidize way less
quickly. But then I came up with the idea that
osmium would make a great brain machine interface
material. I sat down with population geneticist
Alan Earas who had his own theory about the metal
implants inside these beings. There's this thing
called bio electricity that can sort of modulate
where genes get expressed at which locations
really precisely. And so maybe like if I'm trying
to be like really exotic like maybe these things
are are modulating some sort of gene expression
to to make the beings into what they are. It's
fascinating. Maybe there's a chance that they're
they're like minimally genetically al altered
and and the rest of the alteration is at another
layer of the phenotype which is uh could be
this bio electricity layer. Interestingly,
osmium and cadmium have also been
found on meteorites from space.
After we left Mexico City, another hearing
took place there. This time with an American
congressman present, Representative Eric
Berles from Missouri. According to Berles,
UFO whistleblower David Grush told him that the
beings in Nazca resembled things that Grush had
seen in classified settings. Whenever I spoke
with David Grush, who was the whistleblower
from the UA from the Pentagon that studied this
stuff, um I was actually probably not going to
go because I thought that that there's no way
that that's real. and he he recommended that I
do because he said that based on the physiology
of what he's seen in some of these mummies,
not all of them, some of them are faked, but some
of the mummies that exist in in Peru that based
on the physiology, they are congruent with what
he has seen in in briefings in his former role.
And remember the beings in Virginia, Brazil,
and James Fox's amazing movie Moment of Contact,
they also had three fingers, the
episode that became known as the Barc.
There are also very credible American UFO
crash retrieval cases that have occurred,
you guessed it, in Peru. Just look at the
insane story of UFO whistleblower Jonathan
Wagant documented by my buddy UAP Gerbant was
part of a UFO crash retrieval team in Peru. At
one at one point it looked half like green and
half purple. Wayant Allen and Atkins observed
a huge ship embedded at a 45° angle into the rocky
cliff face. This is the craft. Now, this is pretty
crude two-dimensional drawing, but this is jungle
here. This was the craft, and it it was embedded
uh in in in the rock like this. Although no lights
were visible from behind the hatch, Wagant did
observe what appeared to be a four-fingered arm
hanging limply from the open hatch. And listen
to what Dr. David Ruiz had to say about these
beings. Our interview taking a hard left turn.
One of the governments most interested in hiding
things is the one that does the most reverse
engineering and those have been all the things
that happened during the cold war era. These
bodies connect they connect with technology. If I
accept the bodies, I will accept the technology.
But if I want to use the technology for reverse
engineering and have supremacy over planet earth,
then I prefer to hide the bodies, do hidden
reverse engineering and use it for war, right?
Okay, but before we get too excited, there's
some real issues around this case. Number one,
the provenence. This was found by a grave robber,
a werro that probably does some other somewhat
dishonest things for a living. They're likely the
result of grave robbers taking these ancestral
burial, these individuals from their burial sites
and then using them to make and sell these things
on the open market. See, the tough thing about
the involvement of these weros and the global
cartels they're associated with is that their
involvement is simple. They want to make money,
but what their involvement means is not.
If the underlying bodies were real or fake,
they'd want to make knockoffs and maximize
profits by selling new bodies to elites all
over the world on the black market. No matter
what, if the bodies were real, they'd sell
the bodies and make knockoffs resembling the real
ones. And if the bodies were fake but looked real,
they'd also sell them. So, I'm sure these
black market sales are happening. And that
fact alone should give anyone making bold claims
around this case a healthy dose of humility.
But I'm just not sure that fact adds any signal to
the noise. This crime syndicate involvement is the
part of the case I was most afraid of discussing.
It's awkward and adds a real element of danger
for anyone covering it. But at the end of the
day, if you're a WOR and you're watching this,
don't be mad at me. All I'm saying is I'm
genuinely not sure what's going on. And the price
of these things are probably going up as we speak.
Yeah, this is art. If someone made this, I need to
buy one. How much do I get? I've heard seven
figures. Seven figures. I've heard it's a lot
of money. Um Jeez Louise. You know, it's a long
hike up one of these uh small mountains into a
cave that I'm convinced has nothing to do with the
location. And so, initially, he was saying, "Hey,
I found this underground citadel like almost like
a temple." And they were in there and they were
inside a stone sarcophagi. That was the initial
story. Then it changed to no, they were found in
this cave. Do you trust him? Did you get a good
Not even a little bit. Not even a little bit. He
tried to charge me $1,500 just to interview him.
So this must have been completely full of bodies.
It was all up to the ceiling. All
all was full. So she need to like car
like is very soft.
He didn't use any
like a lot to rush crash
was like here in the wind. Yeah. As you can see
from the cave itself, it looks like it can barely
fit one person inside of it, let alone 200 body
parts, appendages, heads, and full intact bodies.
Number two, one of the isolated heads that look
exactly like one of the J-type bodies seems to
have alpaca proteins all over it. A proteomics
expert who I interviewed but chose to remain
anonymous given the controversies around the case
and nent nature of his findings said this to me.
There was an early hypothesis that these could be
an alpaca brain case and there's a published paper
about CT showing CT scan data showing these
morphological similarities to an alpaca brain
case. Uh I ran card proteomic analysis on these
got back these peptide sequences which reflect
um the DNA sequences. Then I used a pipeline from
a paper published in nature two or three years ago
um about species identification of ancient bone
sample and I ran these all of these bone samples
from the skull through uh this pipeline and they
all came back identified as alpaca bone whether
the attached parts the main body of the skull
all of it came back as alpaca bone. Number three,
UFO researcher Steve Meera told me that two
different finger bones of one of the M types,
Maria, were genetically tested in Sri Lanka. He
said that one of the fangi bones came back male,
the other came back female. If that's true,
that obviously throws a wrench in things if
you're looking for an anatomically consistent
singular organism. Ancient DNA is very tricky,
and they've done some DNA work on some of these
bodies that come out all over the map. the the
DNA of Maria we have two two option 70% known 30%
unknown okay from from this that 70% that we we
can identify from that we identify three specific
DNA one from chimpanze bonobo one from another
type of chimpanzeee from Africa and one type from
the south Asian human primat interested. So what
the relation between these three different types
of DNA in the DNA of Maria in the South American.
So even in the known DNA, it's a combination that
you would never see. It's so exotic. Number four,
the signal the noise with the genetics. A lot
of people are talking about genetics who aren't
really geneticists. Zay, who's a forensics
guy, is really basing his understanding of the
being's genome here off of another guy, Dr. David
Ranell. My hypothesis is that Maria is a hybrid,
but natural. What are the two species? It's a
hybrid of what and what? What are the two species
that created it originally? There is a great
possibility that approximately 2,500 years ago,
which is uh the new datings of human remains
that have been found in Asia that this early
human still wild may have migrated to Africa and
in Africa encounter those uh organisms. 250,000
years ago, there was still a reminiscence of both
the origin of paniscos and petroglodites. Ranel
also says that a parasite that is only found
in Africa was found in one of these beings,
further corroborating his theory. And so you think
she's a natural hybrid between Asia and African
ancestors. What I don't understand is how do you
get three fingers and three toes and an elongated
skull and different eyes and the phenotype is
so different due to the evolutionary history
that this organism had in Africa where what we
are finding are physiological adaptations for
arboreal life. It has three fingers. uh it has
an extra falank that makes them longer and and
this allows for better adaptation to grasp tree
branches. This is a very similar adaptation to
what is observed in sloths which also have three
fingers. But here the interesting thing is to know
how it was transferred to South America. If it was
transferred 1,700 years ago, could there have been
a cultural and commercial exchange between Africa
and America 1,700 years ago? That is the question.
The idea that Asia and not Africa is the cradle of
mankind and that Africa and South America may have
had contact before the concistadors in the 15th
century. If you add up the chances of all of these
being true combined, the theory in aggregate does
feel a little far-fetched to me. Although I do not
doubt Ronell's integrity for a second. Finally,
remember Flavio Estrada, that archaeologist that
conflated the wooden figurines confiscated at
the Lima airport with the mummies in 2023? Well,
yeah, doing that was absolutely ridiculous.
But he's gone on to do some more legitimate
debunking after that attempt. Uh they use um
cotton in the supposed joints. Uh they apply
these fast drying synthetic adhesives. Uh the udu
they use cyanoacrylates and it gives it quite an
interesting hardness. Right. He now says that the
fingers on the Mtypes were deliberately mutilated
and the remaining ones were lengthened. I'll leave
it up to you to decide whether he's shown his hand
as a bad actor with his original statements around
the glued together wooden figurines. I'd welcome
him to come on my show. The government of Peru
through the Ministry of Culture is committed
to confiscating the so-called Nazca mommies.
Here's why I personally don't trust the Peruvian
government and think people like Estrada are
just bad faith actors. Many of these beings are
currently being researched at the University of
Eeka. When the vice president of the university,
Martin Alcron, was interviewed, he said that
the Peruvian government is constantly trying
to take the mummies away from the university. And
they make it seem like I was a grave robber. So
stupid. He also said that the government has made
repeated claims that wellrespected scientists
like Dr. Roger Zuniga, who's studying
the bodies at the University of Eeka,
are themselves grave robbers manipulating
human remains. A ridiculous claim that
implies a clear bad faith motive on the part
of the Peruvian government. On seven occasions,
they came with first with police with a
prosecutor and all that. The intention,
I don't know why, was to take these bodies and
the university had to fight for them to stay.
First of all, these beings belong to the people
of Peru. This is Peru's cultural heritage and
it's a shame that it's being denied up
to this point by the Peruvian government,
but that's actually changing. Another point
in the direction that the J types are fake
reconstructions is that morphologically they
just don't look super adaptive like they
can walk super well or be very agile. Some are
potentially real, warrant further investigation,
and in others uh I could take a look at them
and very quickly tell you uh that organism,
if it is an organism, couldn't walk, couldn't
fly, was not mobile. There are all these things
about this case that I think break your
brain because you wish it was cleaner.
Like I think the very clean thing to say is
that the large bodies are clearly real or
they're clearly they're not hoaxes. They're not
cons they're not even artificial fabrications
from rituals. They're like, you know, organisms,
biological organisms that are self-consistent,
that are that are pregnant in some
cases that are pregnant in some cases.
At this point in the video,
you might be wondering, Jesse,
how do you personally shake out? Well,
you have to think probabilistically,
so I'd rather just list the facts around the
case. And I'm just a dude on YouTube with no
credentials to make any claims whatsoever.
But if you really want to know my opinion,
gun to my head, I'm just going to go out and
say I think the M types are probably real.
My guess is the genetics reading Steve Mara got
with one female and one male felangi on Maria's
body was probably due to human contamination.
And Flavio Estrada in the Peruvian Ministry of
Culture, I think they're just bad faith actors.
I don't trust them at all. And there are really
no other solid debunks on this. Very few serious
people are looking at this case. And when serious
people do get involved, they think these
beings are real. Of course, on the fake side,
these could be ancient humans that underwent
traditional headbinding and had their fingers
and toes manipulated. But on that, I'll defer
to the three different sets of forensic experts,
all looking for finger and toe manipulation
and for human headbinding. None of them found
any evidence for either. Then on top of
that, we're very close to a couple of
very clear smoking guns from proving these are
real. For example, if you definitively proved
that Monzerat's fetus inside of it was also
tridactyl, at that point you'd be accusing
Gravedigger Walkeros of cloning abilities that
elite American researchers don't even have.
Now, also at the risk of stirring controversy,
I think the J types are more likely to be fake
or reconstructions. Maybe homages paid to the real
M types. The llama proteins found on the isolated
Jtype head are very interesting to me. And
admittedly, I just have an instinctive allergic
reaction to them given how stylized their faces
look. But even then, you have DICOM files showing
bones, veins, capillaries, things that are hard
to fake. You have eggs inside the bodies of beings
like Louisa. And here's where things get weird.
You have the fact that the J-type beings look a
lot like some other beings in global UFO and alien
cases. Take the Russian snow alien case in 2011.
Another case that was written off by quote unquote
experts as very fake. You see, back in 2011,
Russian National Channel 1 aired a report about a
supposed mass UFO sighting in the Kutsk Oblast, a
region in southeastern Siberia. That was February.
A month later, in March, a video was posted of
this UFO sighting. The closest to the strange
lights was pensioner Nelly Stean. People are
confident that these are the UFOs. The lights were
hanging right above the top of the trees. Several
spheres were breaking apart and then they were
merging back into one. Local children even managed
to film what was happening. These same children
were the first to talk about the strange smell.
There was a little bit of smoke from them and
then an unpleasant smell like from the exploded
little bumps boys like to blow up. They lined up
in the shape of a cone and light was reflecting
from them. Two women ahead of us shouted,
"Look, the UFO." I heard a rumble and then
I saw a pink light. Everything was lit with pink
color. I thought it was an alien. Civil aviation
specialists and employees of the search and
rescue center, the military, the FSB, and the main
directorate of the internal affairs of the Urkutsk
region, the department of internal affairs for
transport all joined the search. Scientists came
to the aid of the emergency services. As always,
they explained everything. "All this looks very
much like a meteorite fall scenario," says Sergey
Yazv, director of the Irutsk State University
Astronomical Observatory. But the villagers
weren't satisfied with that explanation, nor were
any Russian UFO researchers. Thanks to Steven
Pearson, an amazing American Alchemy WAP community
member. We know that this region in Siberia is
home to a lot of Russian nuclear assets. As it
so happens, we know that the 29th Guard's missile
division is and long has been a live nuclear
armed mobile ICBM force in Kutsk. Its nuclear
warheads are stored locally at object 644, not
in silos, but in bunkered magazines. As you know
on this show, we have documented the UFO nuclear
relationship adnauseium. This connection is global
and ubiquitous and it adds to my conviction that
this 2011 UFO sighting and possible crash was very
real. So anyways, here's where things connect to
this Peruvian case and where things get weird.
Just one month later, in that same region
of Siberia, two Russian guys come upon an
alien body in the woods. What the hell? I think
what the hell is lying there? I don't know. They
filmed the body and uploaded it to YouTube. That
video has 12 million views on it. The two guys
who found this body were taken in by the police,
questioned, and apparently confessed to hoaxing
it with breadcrumbs, plasticine, and chicken
skin. Again, we know a similar accusation was
made about Manuel Cacera's fake creations.
So, could that too have been a cover story?
And it's absurd just how much this being looks
like the Nazca Peruvian Jypes [Music] and The
Beings from Close Encounters of the Third Kind,
a movie that Ronald Reagan watched in the White
House and said there's a lot of truth to. And
he said, "I want to thank you for bringing ET to
the White House. We really enjoyed your movie."
And then he looked around the room and he said,
"And there are a number of people in this room who
know that everything on that screen is absolutely
true." And he said it without smiling. Um um but
he but but he he said that and everybody laughed,
by the way. The whole room laughed because he
presented it like a joke, but he wasn't smiling as
he said it. And the chicken skin hoax claim sounds
a lot like Manuel Caceras's tourist trinkets. I
would love to tell you that I can definitively
say that a video with 12 million views on it on
YouTube of a possible alien body is definitely
fake. I realize it's sort of patently absurd,
but I just don't know. The debunks on this
video are almost as ridiculous as the video
itself. You would expect to see something,
whether it's, you know, alien blood or fluids,
um, or even some sort of pus. I don't like it.
I'll be honest with you. So, we're going with
Chase on this one. The Russian alien corpse is a
hoax. Clearly, some people can't get enough alien
corpse footage, even though it drives the serious
UFO researchers nuts. I don't trust this quote
unquote expert analysis at all. It's super weak.
Again, I think this video should be debunked,
but I think it deserves a better debunk. And if
you were part of the defense establishment, maybe
CIA or FSB or elsewhere, how would you soften
the blow on disclosure? you'd say, "Oh, yeah,
that video with 12 million views you've already
seen. Oops. Yeah, that was actually real." That
would cause a lot less panic than some new video
of a being that they haven't gauged the public's
reaction to yet. Gun to my head, I would still
say this video is probably fake. The students
who filmed this video, Timor and Kir, were 18
and 19 at the time. That's obviously a ripe age
for pranking the world to get YouTube famous. But
given the similarities with the Peruvian case and
the UFO sighting a month before, if anyone can
get in touch with either of these guys for me, I
would welcome an introduction at jesse michaelels
proton.me. The point is with the Nazca mummies and
with this Russian snow alien and any UFO sighting
is that the very idea of quote unquote disclosure
is just an appeal to authority to tell you
things that you have the ability to evaluate
for yourself. Right now, disclosure has already
occurred for many people already. The evidence
might simply be hidden in plain sight. The very
concept of disclosure is a complete misnomer.
If we had the ultimate disclosure moment, what
would it look like? You saw some gray alien
wheeled out in front of Fort Dietrich. God forbid
a tactical nuke gets activated in Ukraine or the
Middle East, but a UFO shuts down the launch
moments before the countdown. Does the world
then start to believe in alien life all at once?
Probably not. You'd have half the world demanding
DNA samples of the body, material analysis of
the craft, a flight demonstration with skeptical
academics and aviation experts present. But even
then, part of society would say that the video
recording of this demonstration was an AI deep
fake that the genetic data was fabricated. reality
itself would splinter with some part of society
believing in intelligent life above humans and
an opposing faction digging their heels in with
further skepticism around deep state deception.
It took mainstream archaeology 15 years to accept
Gobeclet after Claus Schmidt started excavating
it in 1994. And that excavation itself was over
30 years after the site was initially uncovered
by the universities of Istanbul and Chicago
in the 60s. And that's just an anomalously
old archaeological site. It doesn't wholesale
overturn our understanding of the known universe.
[Music]
Now we get into the more interesting question
that everybody should be asking. If either
of these beings, the J types or the M types are
real, what the are they? This is the stuff that's
exciting to speculate about. Chilean researcher
David Velasco speculates that this could be a
global subterranean species. For example, the Hopi
people, traditionally associated with Arizona,
have a legend around the ant people. These
beings, described as wise and industrious,
are said to have helped the Hopi survive by
providing refuge underground and teaching them
essential survival skills. They also look a lot
like the reptilian beings here. They are also
traditionally depicted in cave art with three
fingers and three toes. Could this just be what
we're seeing here? Another possible theory is that
the Mtypes or the homminid looking beings are the
hybridization of the reptilians and humans. They
retain some of the more idiosyncratic features
of the tridactyl reptilians like the three
fingers and three toes, but they look mostly
human. Remember the local dialects translation for
the name of the region laboratory for insemination
and hybridization. An even weirder theory and
perhaps the most contrarian take would be that
the J-type reptilians are the real beings and the
mtype hominids were just humans who were deformed
or mutilated in an ancient sophisticated way
to imitate the J types. Finally, maybe these
beings are just the gray aliens that we see in
all these abduction cases. Maybe the adult ones
are the quote unquote tall grays and the kids are
the quote unquote little grays. They definitely
look like them. In fact, former American Alchemy
guest and friend of the show, Whitley Strieber,
who claims a lot of contact with gay aliens and
whose book Communion helped popularize them in
the United States, is deeply interested in this
case. In fact, he introduced me to a lot of the
researchers. But people describe Grays as being
able to sort of manipulate their local reality.
Well, maybe the osmium and cadmium implants
in these beings allow them to control their
electromagnetic signature and be perceived
differently by different people. Again,
who knows? And what about the least crazy
possibility? The idea that maybe we've just
found a new terrestrial species or a new branch
of homminid. Well, you can actually look it up.
We know that anywhere from 21 to 30 homminids have
walked the earth depending on how stringent your
classification system is. Only human homo sapiens
exist today. But guess how many hominids we've
discovered in just the last 10 years. Again,
depending on your strictness and definitions,
anywhere from 5 to 10 have been found
in just the last 10 years. That's a
very high percentage of overall homminid
beings discovered in just the last decade.
This is the problem with fossils, right? Because
when things die, they don't really create fossils
unless it's a very extraordinary instance.
You know, like something unusual has to occur.
You got to get trapped in mud, right? You know,
that's how So most of the things that have lived,
we don't have fossils of which is if this thing
was a small percentage or small population, small
percentage of the the living humans. And some of
them are like that and they just died off like
500 years ago, thousand years ago. And these ones
got saved because they were around a dietimmacous
earth mine which preserved their organs and their
whole body. Just from an anthropology perspective,
that should be the most fascinating thing. But
it's got the stink of a hoax on it. So people
don't want to go and study it. The issue with
the homminid thing is that hominids usually
don't have three fingers or three toes. But some
mammals like sloths do. But some anthropologists
like Roger Zuniga at the University of Eeka
like to make a very important distinction.
They say the Mtypes are very likely not homminid
given their unique tridactyl features. They are
more humanoid. They just appear human but are
ultimately genetically and phoggenetically very
dissimilar. And another thing, not everyone
died at the same time. There are specimens
that range from 1,800 years to 700 years ago.
Wow. So over a thousand years span difference.
Wow. That makes us journalists and those of
us investigating think that there has been
coexistence of these species with humans,
our ancestors, for more than 1,000 years.
[Music] The main issue with this entire case
is that it has a stigma, a stench. Because as
soon as you hear the term alien mummies, half
the population is zealously willing to believe
anything and the other half will believe nothing
you say. There are very few adults in the room.
Conventionally credentialed people willing to
earnestly look into this. I want you to make a
2x two quadrant. Credentialed people is the x-axis
and open and closeed-mindedness is the y-axis.
Almost everyone is either in the
credentialed close-minded camp or
the uncredentialed radically open-minded camp.
We need more credentialed people willing to make
bold moves and investigate mysteries like these.
Basically, we need more people in the credentialed
open-minded camp. People like John McDow, Jim
Caruso, Dr. Jose Zalsce, and Dr. David Ruiz.
I really appreciate that you take the effort to
come to my country to investigate this closely.
What you are doing hasn't been done by the
scientists. The archaeologists have not done it.
Neither have the YouTubers nor the communicators
nor the journalists have done what you are doing.
Catastrophic disclosure is happening in Latin
America and I wish that our community back in the
US would pay more attention to what's happening
here. Yeah. I'm sick of like arguing about the
Wilson memo and it's like who cares? Yeah. We've
anointed these high priests of euphology. These
people who I won't name them. We all know who
they are. who all have security clearances and
like we're expected to just all line up and wait
for the next, you know, little drip of controlled
disclosure. And for me, like that's not what
I signed up for. Like when I got into this,
this was a very anti- athoritarian movement. This
was very grassroots. You know, the people with
security clearances were the enemies unless they
were becoming whistleblowers, you know, right?
I thank you once again for coming here. I hope
you have a good trip and I want to dedicate to
to dedicate to his grandpa. Oh, he's going to be
our few moments his grandpa just come. Oh. Oh,
no. We were in the middle of
recording and I was informed that
uh my grandfather had died. I saw you walk over
and I my heart went out to you. I I felt like
we needed to pause and you just continued
on and and so uh so so grateful for you,
man, and for all your work. And I know
your grandfather is watching over you,
incredibly proud of all your work
and uh he'll continue to guide you.
Although it's clear that forensic experts in
various countries all seem to think that at
least the Mtypes or hominids are real, we're just
not getting a clear sample from the genetics.
Because of that, I decided to hit up my buddy Ben
Lamb at Colossal Biosciences. From its inception,
Colossal was advised by George Church at Harvard,
maybe the top geneticist in the world. They've
also single-handedly deextincted the direwolf.
They've literally brought it back from ancient
DNA samples. So, they are going to run tests
on these Nazca mummies. And hey, if Colossal
brought the direwolf back from extinction,
maybe they can bring one of these beings back,
too. I'm half joking here. I've seen Jurassic Park
and I know how that story ends. But another part
of me thinks that the gatekeepers won't accept
the reality of these things until they see one
live walking around. There's only one gate to get
through. They need the permission of the Peruvian
government. If the Peruvian government won't let a
top American biotech company, a company advised by
maybe the top geneticist in the world, use their
proprietary ancient DNA testing techniques to test
these mummies, then I don't know what else
you need as far as their orientation towards
the subject. Us reaching out to them and their
reaction will be a clear indicator. It will be a
forcing function. Are you pro- openness? humanity
and science or do you want to be a gatekeeper and
keep a lid on this thing? Again, this is Colossal
asking for permission to take samples of these
bodies from Peru to the US. If that doesn't
work out, I will also put up all of the money
to personally fly any expert in genetics, any
paleoarchchaeologist, any proteomics expert to
go down to Peru, go to the University of Eeka
and study these bodies firsthand. I think that
there are a lot of different steps that need to be
taken if we're going to realistically examine the
uh the specimens and that would include and I
hope I'm not going too far a field here but if
if these are tridactyl organisms the DNA here
ought to match the DNA here ought to match the
DNA here and interestingly enough the DNA
is most likely to be preserved in a tooth.
And so if all four of those or five of those
or more areas match up, then you've got an
entity. If they don't, that's not the same uh
organism. [Music] The definition of a grifter
is someone who wants to keep these things in
a liinal space. They don't want any of these
cases collapsed into true or false. I could just
make these videos and tell the world that these
things are definitely extraterrestrial, which
I can't say for certain, and just move on. But
I don't want to do that. I want to actually
figure out what the hell is going on. So,
the mystery continues, but we will find out soon
whether this is a crazy sophisticated hoax or we
have a new species on our hands. Until next time,
I'm Jesse Michaels and this is American Alchemy.
Quick heads up for you guys. American Alchemy
merch just dropped. It's all super high quality,
100% cotton, embroidered hats,
clean designs. It's up now. Go
to americanm.com to check it out. Thanks
for the support. It means a lot. [Music]
He's has a little eye issue. I think that
the ocean would heal it because it would
be antiseptic. I'm sure your editor is going
to [__] love having this footage where he
just doesn't even know how it's connected.
We're going to include it. It's humanizing
the story. My Chad GBT Chad GBT Reasoning told
me that viewers get smart man fatigue from my
shows cuz it's too many facts. So, I've
got to show more personality. So, that's
that's what we're doing now. Smart man fatigue.
Interesting. Smart man fatigue. I can see that.